I’m so happy to welcome today
a very dear friend of mine,
Brother Robert P. Johnson.
R. P., welcome to the program.
Thank you, Mark.
I appreciate being here.
Now, you’re here, R.P.,
because you are a wonderful example
of someone who’s had a life
filled with blessings in Jehovah’s service.
OK.
So I know that your family
goes way back in the truth.
Yes.
In fact, I understand
that your great grandfather
learned the truth in Brother Russell’s time,
even before 1914.
That’s right!
So that means
you’re a fourth-generation Witness.
Mm-hm.
But now, like so many
who are watching our program,
you were a little boy growing up
in a congregation of Jehovah’s people.
So how did you come
to the decision that you wanted
to dedicate your life to serve Jehovah
and then get baptized?
Well, Mark, thinking back, I can identify
at least two
outstanding influences in my life.
And the first was my parents.
Having that heritage in the truth helped me.
I was just an average kid in my early years.
But the parents instilled in me a desire
to please Jehovah
and make it my life to do that.
They set goals before me.
They taught me the truth.
I learned enough from them to be able
to make a dedication to Jehovah God
and to have a close relationship with him.
And so early on, that’s what I did.
I remember that evening after supper
in my bedroom
praying to Jehovah to accept my dedication.
The date was May 25, 1949.
I was 11 years old at the time.
I told my parents, and they were happy,
but they just wanted me
to wait longer to make sure
especially how I
would handle the teenage years
and so on, so I waited.
And so then when did the moment
come for you to finally get baptized?
It was at the 1953 international convention
in Yankee Stadium in New York
on July 22, 1953, when I was baptized.
And again, I remember
that like it was yesterday.
When I came up out of the water,
I thanked Jehovah that finally,
“I am one of Jehovah’s Witnesses!”
and I also, like a child, added,
“You can bring the end anytime now.”
So you mentioned your parents,
the good influence they had on you,
but was there another influence
on you that helped you?
Yes.
At the 1953 convention,
Brother Knorr had identified
that there would be a special program
for training people in the truth.
And from the congregation,
there was a brother
of the anointed named Charles Richardson,
and my father asked Brother Richardson
to train me in this training program.
And Brother Richardson
was a mentor to me
for the next five years of my life.
Over the years, he helped me
view the ministry as an opportunity
to help people develop
a relationship with Jehovah
and, therefore, to reach out to them
in teaching them the truth
—the doctrinal truth—
but to help them to see
that Jehovah is a real person.
And he helped me to enjoy the ministry.
That is what has kept me happy
in Jehovah’s service down to this day.
Now, just from your expressions
and what you talked about with me before,
I could see that this Brother Richardson
had a tremendous impact on your life.
And I think, R.P., it really made you
want to be a trainer of other people
because that’s how I first met you, right?
Right.
You were the brother
assigned to be my trainer
when I came to the Service Department.
I remember that fondly.
And I know that I’m not the only one.
I mean, you’ve really spent
your whole life training other people.
Well, it’s been a privilege.
And I was trained;
I was helped along the way.
I was nobody special, but Jehovah
has extended undeserved kindness to me
and made all these things possible.
So there’s no excuse
for me not passing along the baton.
And it’s a delight
for me to see others carry it.
So now, let’s come back.
You’re 15 years old.
You get baptized at Yankee Stadium,
and now as a result
of being baptized at this age,
how do you feel you benefited?
For one thing,
if you know what you want to do
and you stay focused on it,
it makes it easier to deal
with whatever challenges come later.
And so being dedicated
and baptized early in life
helped me to stay focused on the truth.
I still remember that dedication.
It means something to me,
and I tried to make it
mean something to others
(for as young as they can possibly make it).
And they’ll find the same thing I found:
Jehovah’s blessing will be with them.
So now, at 15,
what doors start to open up?
What opportunities come to you
because you are a baptized brother?
At age 17, I was appointed
as a ministerial servant.
I started pioneering right out
of high school at age 18.
And serving where the need was greater,
I got a chance to work
at starting a new congregation.
And so at 21,
I was congregation servant,
or an elder, at that point.
Then there was a need:
The organization was looking for brothers
who could do traveling work.
So at age 25, I had the privilege
of being a traveling overseer.
So now, how did you feel
being an elder at 21?
being a circuit overseer at 25?
Was it a little bit overwhelming
at such a young age?
I was scared.
I knew the truth,
but I was uncertain about myself,
but then I also knew Jehovah would help me.
I learned a lot as a young
traveling overseer, and I thank Jehovah
that the people
in the circuits that I served
endured those three years
that I was with them.
But now, those were the challenges,
but what do you see as being the benefits
of being a young traveling overseer?
For the congregation, they had somebody
who could stay out
in field service long hours.
And also
the younger traveling overseer could relate
to the young people
and the younger adults in the congregation.
There were other benefits
that even today different ones
that I served in earlier circuits
bring forth to me.
For example, after having
a good time in field service
and then the meetings,
I would do recreational things with the kids.
And we ran track
out in the streets,
and we played board games,
softball, basketball,
and then we had good times
just talking about the truth
and also talking
about how you can put your ministry first,
and there’s plenty of time
for seeking a mate later.
So now, for a time,
you were serving as a single brother,
but at some point, that changed.
When did that happen?
I have enjoyed the best of two worlds.
I enjoyed singleness
and the blessings Jehovah gave me.
But when I was 28 years old,
I married a beautiful pioneer sister,
and I had already gotten adjusted
in my circuit work.
This was my second circuit.
So, thanks to Jehovah,
we were able to be married, and to this day
Gracie and I continue in full-time service
after 52 years of marriage.
So R.P.,
you started with circuit work,
and then later you went on to district work.
Right.
And then you were teaching
the Kingdom Ministry School.
Mm-hm.
And then you got invited to Bethel.
Right.
And 31 years at Bethel, right?
Oh, yes.
And now you and Gracie
are doing special pioneer work.
Right, in Orlando, Florida.
So you have more than 60 years
of full-time service to Jehovah.
It’s because of Jehovah’s blessing,
and it’s made me happy.
So the question I want to ask you is:
When you’re looking back now
to these 60 wonderful years
—more than 60 wonderful years—
what would you say to young people
who are facing the same decision
that you faced when you were
a little boy growing up in the truth?
It’s the best thing
I could’ve done with my life,
and I had many opportunities.
Jehovah blessed my humble efforts
as he has blessed you and others too.
The young people today
have even more opportunities
because Jehovah’s organization
under the leadership of Jesus Christ
is expanding and moving fast.
And, like Brother Richardson taught me,
if you just make yourself available,
then the organization
will find a place for you and use you,
and that’s so true today.
One of my greatest joys
is to see the young people
take the baton and run with it,
and I have no regrets.
There’s been no challenge
that has overwhelmed me
and made me regret things.
There were challenges, of course,
but with Jehovah’s help,
well, I’m here today.
And that can be true of our young people.
So seize the opportunity while you’re young
and experience the blessing
that Jehovah gives those
who serve him from youth onward.
R.P., it has been such a wonderful joy
to have you here on this program
and to hear about your life filled with joy,
your life filled with blessings,
all because of the decision
you made just as a little boy
to dedicate your life
to Jehovah and get baptized.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
I appreciate talking about it.